Part -1

Word :- word means it have not meaning of this word thats called word. Ex:- parth ,chacha ,bhaiya ,navro this is the word.
Keyword :- this have meaning full in javascript thats called keyword. Ex:- for , if ,while , do this is the keywords

var let const

var :- this was devloped in es5 version in javascript.
var is function scoped.

let : this is launch in Es6 version of javascript.
let is a braces scoped.

const : const is a constant it's not change the value in redeclaration and dont overwrite the value . this is devloped in Es6 version of Javascript.

HOISTING IN JAVASCIPT

Hoisting: hoisting means the you are use the variable before its declaration.
Ex:-
console.log(a) you can use before declaration of value.
var a = 12

TYEPES IN JAVASCRIPT

Primitive types :- string ,number , boolean , null ,undefind this all are the primitive types

Reference(Non primitive types) :- [],{},() this all are the reference types

CONDITIONALS

In conditionals we are use
1.if Statements
Ex:- if(10 > 9){

}else{

}
2.ternery operator
let age= 19
let b = age>=18 ? You are noe eligible to vote : you are not eligible to vote in election

LOOPS

1.FOR 2.WHILE 3.do while

1. for(declaration; condition; iteration)
   for (i=0; i<5; i++){
   console,=.log("Hii")
   }

2. declaration is required before condition
   Ex:-
   let i = 0;

while (i<=5)
{
console.log("Hii")
}

3.do while

let i = 0;

do
{
console.log("Hii")
}while (i<=5);

4. forEach loop

let arr=[2,4,97,9,5]

arr.forEach(function(val) {
console.log(val \ 2)
})

for each loop use to created copy of your changed array data

PARAMETERS AND ARGUMENTS

function parth(a){ the a is a parameters
console.log("hii")
}

parth(12) the 12 is a arguments

PUSH POP SHIFT UNSHIFT SLICE

Push = means add value in last of array.
ex:- let arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9]
arr.push(0)

pop = means remove value that you add in last of array.
ex:- let arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9]
arr.pop()

shift = this is remove value of first.
ex:- let arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9]
arr.shift()

unshift = this is add value in first.
ex:- let arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9]
arr.unshift(0)

splice = this is remove value of starting index declering index.
ex:- let arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9];
arr.splice(1, 3);

OBJECTS

let a = {
name: "parth",
rollNo:53
}

HOW TO SET NEGATIVE INDEX IN ARRAY

let arr = [2,5,4,7,9]

arr[-1] = 2

/\ part-2 Advance course

1.var is a function scoped.
2.let is a braces scoped.

function parth() {
for (var i = 0; i < 11; i++){ var is a function scoped.
console.log(i)
}
console.log(i)
you are use var keyword outside of for loop

    for (let i = 0; i < 11; i++) {   let is a braces scoped.
      console.log(i);
    }
     let are not used outside of for loop

}
parth()

WINDOW OBJECT :- IT MEANS JAVASCRIPT DOESN'T HAVE THIS PROPERTY USE ANOTHER'S PROPERTY

Ex:- alert , confirm ,prompt

ECECUTION CONTEXT AND LEXICAL

function abcd() {
var a = 20;
function parth() {
var b = 30;
console.log(b)
}
}
abcd()

HOW TO COPY REFERENCE VALUE

let arr = [1,8,9,5]

let b = [...arr]

TRUTHY VALUES AND FALSEY VALUES

FALSEY VALUES = 0 , NaN ,UNDEFINED, NULL , FALSE , document.all
TRUTHY = NOT IN ABOVE VALUES

if (7) {
console.log("hey")
its print hey becasue 7 is a truthy value the condition is true

}
else {
console.log("Hello")
}

Falsey
if (0) {
console.log('hey');
its print "hello" becasue 0 is a falsey value the condition is false
} else {
console.log('Hello');
}

FOREACH LOOP
its not change your main array
const a = [10, 20, 86, 47, 56, 62]

a.forEach((val) => {
console.log(val+2)
})

forin loop

let obj = {
name: "Parth",
Sem: 6,
BornYear: 2004,
City: {
name:"rajkot"
}
}

for (var key in obj){
console.log(key,obj[key])
}


CALLL BACK FUNCTON
Settimeout function

FIRST CLASS FUNCTIONS

function abcd(a) {
a()
}
abcd(function () {
console.log("object")
})

var arr = [1, 2, 3, 4] typeof arr is 'object'

updating object props to delete object key and value
const obj = {
name: "parth",
school: "gyandeep vidhyalay",
RollNo : 53
}
delete obj.school
